Hello everyone, welcome back to another podcast here at EnglishPod, my name is Marco
and I'm Erica and today we're looking at another one of our lessons for English of the past decades
and this time it's the 1990s. Well you know the 1990s is a little easier for most of us to remember
yeah I guess it's a little bit more recent we're gonna be looking at a lot of language that
is still used today most of these words and phrases are still used today so they're going to be
very useful and you're going to sound a lot more native. Mm-hmm a lot cooler as well huh?
Right so before we get started with this lesson why don't we take a look at vocabulary preview.
Very cablory preview. We have two words we're going to hear in the dialogue. Now the first one is
a mall. A mall. M-A-L-L mall. All right so a mall is basically short for shopping mall.
And a shopping mall is a big building with many stores inside. Right so it's like a shopping center
and our last word for vocabulary preview is gang. The gang. The gang. Okay so a gang is a group of people
yeah it's a group of people you can call your friends the gang. We're going to go out with the
gang tonight. Yep. Now we sometimes hear this word to have and it has a negative meaning right?
Right like street gangs. Yeah so people who are who fight and deal drugs and all that sort of stuff.
Right so it can have a negative and a positive meaning so but it just depends on how you use it.
Yeah but in the dialogue we'll hear it with the positive meaning. Right so that's all the words we have
for vocabulary preview. Let's listen to this cool and hip dialogue from the 1990s and we'll come
back later and explain some words.
Hey for eyes. What's up man? How have you been? Not bad. Just went to the mall and picked up some
junk. Check out my new adidas. Those are dope. You are going to be getting mad props from the gang man.
Anyways have you seen Betty lately? Dude don't even go there. That girl started tripping
because I went to the movies with Veronica the other day. I was like look you knew how I was before
you got with you. That's right you're such a player man. Dude there's mad max. Let's go say hi.
Max. What's up? Are you okay? You look like you just saw ghost. I got an F and English class.
My life is over. Dude you're over it. You need to lay off the books for a while and have some fun.
Come on let's bounce. Where are we going? Oh crap. My dad doesn't go post to when he finds out about this.
I'm going to open the can of what best on you if you don't come with me right now. Okay okay. G.
Well it sounds like this guy's got some problems at school huh? Yeah he got an F on his paper but
you always can count on your friends to try and cheer you up by doing something. Yeah but they
use some really great phrases and vocabulary words so why don't we look at those now in language takeaway?
Language takeaway. All right on language takeaway we're going to be looking at five words and
well let's start with the first one. So the guy was talking about his really cool new shoes
his new adidas right and his friend said those are dope. Dope. Dope. Okay so it's pretty easy to
understand when something is dope. It's really awesome. It's cool. Yeah it's great. Right it's great so
that's dope. And it's an adjective right? So his friends said those are dope and he said you're
going to be getting mad props from the gang. Okay so mad props. We can divide this word into so let's
take a look at the first part mad. So we understand that mad is angry right? Yeah but it can also
mean a lot right? Amazing or really. So if I say you have mad skills you're really good at something
or you can say she has a mad amount of shoes. All right so he's going to get mad props. Now props is
like respect or compliments. Yeah so so his shoes are so cool that he's going to get a lot of respect
or a lot of compliments from his friends. Exactly mad props. Mad props. So they started talking
about girls and he mentioned that this girl started tripping tripping. So two tripping. Right as you
notice it's tripping. It doesn't have the G at the end which isn't really grammatically correct but
that's kind of the way it's pronounced. Yeah we would never say the G. Right so if somebody is tripping
they're they're getting really upset. They're getting really angry. Right they're causing trouble.
So why don't we listen to a couple of examples of how we could use tripping for different situations?
Example one. Leanne was tripping because I got dirt on her car.
Example two. Even though I apologize for calling her fat,
Jenny was tripping all night. Example three. He sent me 43 text messages and call me about 20 times.
That guy is tripping over me. Okay so that's pretty clear.
I'm tripping. All right now moving on to our next word. They wanted to go somewhere and he said
come on let's bounce. Let's bounce. Let's bounce. I'm gonna bounce. Now a bounce basically means
it's leave. Yeah let's get out of here. But we might be more familiar with this this word as in like
a ball right. A ball bounces off the floor. Exactly. So I guess it's kind of the same you kind of
bounce off the floor and leave that place. Yeah let's bounce. Okay so for a final word now this guy
who got a bad mark on his paper he was nervous about what his dad would say right? Right?
Because his dad was going to go postal. He said my dad is gonna go postal. To go postal.
Now if you go postal it means you go crazy. Yeah you really freak out. You go you get very angry.
Yeah like really angry. This word comes from the 90s because during a time it was very common
in the United States that postal workers melman were going a little bit crazy and you know they
started shooting people and delivering some strange packages. Well I guess so people who work in
the post office maybe don't have the most exciting jobs and that drive them a little crazy.
Exactly that's what and but now they have a term named after them. All right so why don't we
listen to our dialogue for the second time? We're gonna slow it down a little bit and then we'll come back.
Hey for eyes. What's up man? How have you been? Not bad. Just went to the mall and picked up some
junk. Check out my new adidas. Those are dope. You are going to be getting mad props from the
gang man. Anyways have you seen Betty lately dude don't even go there. That girl started
tripping because I went to the movies with Veronica the other day. I was like look you knew
how I was before you got with me. That's right you are such a player man dude there's mad max.
Let's go say hi. Max was ah are you okay? You look like you just saw ghost.
I got an effort in this class my life is over. Dude you're over it. You need to lay off the
books for a while and have some fun. Come on let's bounce. Where are we going? Oh crap my dad's
gonna go post when he finds out about this. I'm gonna open the can of what best on you if you don't
come with me right now. Okay okay geez. Okay so I think that was a little easier to
understand you know we've got a lot of pretty strange words and phrases some interesting slang.
Yeah and I want to take a look at this slang now so let's get started with fluency builder.
Fluency builder. Okay so the guy with the new shoes he asked his friends have you seen
Betty lately right. Right and the his friend replied don't even go there. Right he was like dude
don't even go there. Don't even go there. So what does he mean when he says don't even go there.
He means don't talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. Right don't even touch that subject.
Don't even mention it. Right so if somebody wants to talk about a topic that you think is sensitive
or you don't want to talk about us to say hey don't don't even go there. So Marko what do you think
about the new tax law? Don't even go there. I don't even want to talk about politics. Okay so I
think that's that's a really actually quite helpful phrase to avoid talking about an uncomfortable
subject. Right so he said don't even go there and he started talking about the girl and she was
tripping and then he said something interesting. He said I was like look you knew how I was before
you got with me. Yeah I really like this phrase. Now I want to focus on the first part. I was like
I was like I was like. Now you might hear a lot of native English speakers use these three words
before they start telling you what they said. So it's like saying I said or I told him. Yep so
this actually is really common especially with people under the age of 30. So why don't we
hear a few more examples of how it's used now? Example one. This guy caused a car accident I was like
you idiot you can kill people by driving like that. Example two. And then I was like I hate you and she
was all like I hate you more. Example three. I told the teacher that I didn't finish my homework
and he was like I'll see you after school. So if you're telling a story or you're maybe talking
to somebody and you want to explain what you said you can say I was like hey what are you doing
and she was like what so you can have an entire dialogue based with I was like she was like
we were like huh okay so I was like it's super super useful. So now our next word now they saw
their friend who got the bad marking in school and the guy said dude get over it. Get over it.
Get over it. So if somebody tells you to get over it stop worrying about it. Okay or stop thinking
about it. All right so if somebody is sad because maybe his girlfriend broke up with him you would
get over it. Yeah stop thinking about that it go it's in the past. Yeah and you you commonly use this
for when somebody is upset about a small thing something they shouldn't worry about. Get over it.
Yeah now what are we going to our final word at the end of the dialogue they said I'm going to open
a can of webass. Okay so to open a can of webass on somebody to open a can of webass.
So again let's break this down before we explain it. Okay I think we have to take one step back here.
To whoop someone's ass is to beat them up right. To to punch them and hurt them.
Right so to whoop somebody's ass. So if I open a can of webass what does that mean? It means you're
going to beat them up. So it's just a funny very informal way of saying like in this can I'm going
to open it and I'm going to start hitting you or something like that. Some sort of small man is going
to jump out of the can and start hitting you. Exactly but it's never literal it's not like
you're actually going to beat somebody up it's just kind of like kind of joke. Yeah it's an empty threat.
Yeah all right so some really interesting words and phrases in this dialogue I think we should
listen to it for the last time and then we'll come back and talk a little bit more about this great
decade.
Hey for eyes what's up man how have you been? Not bad just went to the mall and picked up some
check out my new adidas. Those are dope. You are going to be getting mad drops from the gang man.
Anyways have you seen Betty lately dude don't even go there. That girl started tripping because
I went to the movies with Veronica the other day. I was like look you knew how I was before you got
that's right you are such a player man dude there's mad max let's go say hi
max was ah are you okay you look like you just saw ghost. I got an epic English class my life is over
dude you're over it you need to lay off the books for a while and have some fun come on let's bounce
where are we going. Oh crap my dad's gonna go post when he finds out about this. I'm gonna open
the can of what best on you if you don't come with me right now okay okay G.
Well Marco in the dialogue I heard one of the guys say what's up but he said it in a really
strange way didn't he yeah exactly he said what's up okay so what what's up with that so in the
90s it was popular instead of saying what's up you would just kind of double BS and just say what's up
and then it became very famous with a TV commercial for a certain beer and actually I remember
this commercial during the the Super Bowl they had this big commercial where everyone was saying what's
up in this really strange way right it's still used today informally between friends you'll go
hey hey what's up and what's up yeah so you'll use it yeah so that commercial made it actually quite
cool and in famous to talk like that actually in Spanish pod they have a show called getbasa which is
like the translation of what's up and they start each show with like saying getbasa but it's exactly
the same so maybe it will become popular in Spanish maybe but I guess only uh time will tell yeah that's
all right so really cool stuff and as we heard typical music from the 90s and another interesting
thing was the nicknames for eyes Mad Max very popular among young kids hmm so remember if you
have any questions about this language or anything else about this lesson come to our website at
englishpod.com right you can leave all your questions in comments there and we hope to see you guys
there so thanks for listening and until next time goodbye bye
you